<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
  <title>Copyright</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/epub.css" />
  </head>
<body>
<h1>Editorial Board</h1>

<p>David Bressoud<br />
Carl Pomerance<br />
Robert Devaney, Chair<br />
Hung-Hsi Wu</p>

<p>2000 <em>Mathematics Subject Classification</em>. Primary 52C23; Secondary 37B50, 37A25, 20H15, 82D25.</p>

<p>The writing of this book was supported in part by Texas grant ARP 003658-152 and NSF grant DMS 9531584.</p>

<h2>Abstract</h2>

<p>This is an interdisciplinary book aimed at senior level undergraduate mathematics students. The common thread throughout the book is a type of tiling, of which the best known example is the “kite and dart” tiling of the plane. The book attempts to show that to understand this new type of structure it has been necessary to employ an unusual variety of specialties from mathematics and physics, and that this effort has resulted in new mathematics.</p>

<p class="cip__loc"><strong>Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data</strong></p>
<p class="cip__loc">Radin, Charles, 1945–</p>
<p class="cip__loc">   Miles of tiles / Charles Radin.</p>
<p class="cip__loc">     p. cm. — (Student mathematical library ; v. 1)</p>
<p class="cip__loc">   Includes bibliographical references and index.</p>
<p class="cip__loc">   ISBN 0-8218-1933-X (softcover : alk. paper)</p>
<p class="cip__loc">   1. Tiling (Mathematics)  I. Title.  II. Series.</p>
<p class="cip__loc"></p>
<p class="cip__loc">QA166.8.R33  1999</p>
<p class="cip__loc">516—dc21                               99-20662</p>
<p class="cip__loc">                                                                           CIP</p>

<p><strong>Copying and reprinting.</strong> Individual readers of this
publication, and nonprofit libraries acting for them, are permitted to
make fair use of the material, such as to copy select pages for use in
teaching or research. Permission is granted to quote brief passages
from this publication in reviews, provided the customary
acknowledgment of the source is given.</p>

<p>Republication, systematic copying, or multiple reproduction of any
material in this publication is permitted only under license from the
American Mathematical Society.  Requests for permission to reuse
portions of AMS publication content are handled by the Copyright
Clearance Center.  For more information, please visit
<a href="https://www.ams.org/publications/pubpermissions">www.ams.org/publications/pubpermissions</a>.</p>

<p>Send requests for translation rights and licensed reprints to
<a href="mailto:reprint-permission@ams.org">reprint-permission@ams.org</a>.
</p>

<p>© 1999 by the American Mathematical Society. All rights reserved.<br />
The American Mathematical Society retains all rights except those granted to the United States Government.</p>

<p>Visit the AMS home page at
<a href="https://www.ams.org/">https://www.ams.org/</a></p>

<p>ISBN: 978-1-4704-????-? (epub)</p>

<p>Version 1.0, ???</p>
</body></html>
<!-- ams-bookhtml v11.0.1 -->