<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" dir="ltr" lang="en"><head><meta charset="utf-8"/><meta content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" name="viewport"/><title>Preface</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/epub.css"/></head><body>
  
  
  
    
    
    
    
  
  
    
      
        
        
        
        
        
        
      
    
  
  
    
    
  
<section data-filename="Part-0004.xhtml" id="ltxid5" data-ams-doc-level="0" role="doc-preface">
      
        <h1 class="chapter"><span class="chapter__title" data-ams-doc="title">Preface</span></h1>
      
      
        <p>“In the world of human thought generally, and in physical science particularly, the most important and most fruitful concepts are those to which it is impossible to attach a well-defined meaning” – an intriguing idea from the physicist H.A. Kramers <cite-group><ams-x>[</ams-x><cite><a id="texmlid1-ref-0" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref" data-ams-ref="bibr" href="../Text/Part-0014.xhtml#texmlid1">Kra</a></cite><ams-x>]</ams-x></cite-group>. Even within mathematics, where the approach to knowledge is somewhat different from the physical sciences, a version of this thesis would appeal to those engaged in research: in prosaic terms – anything well-understood is less promising as a research topic than something not-well-understood.</p>
        <p>This book is motivated by something not-well-understood, a class of structures exemplified by the “Penrose tilings”, or, more specifically, the “kite &amp; dart tilings” (Fig. <span class="refgroup" data-ams-refrange="null" data-ams-ref="null" data-ams-doc="refgroup"><a data-ams-ref="figure" href="../Text/Part-0005.xhtml#ltxid8">1</a></span>, on p. 2). These structures are not-well-understood on a grand scale, having had significant impact in physics and mathematics, and originating from work done in the 1960’s in philosophy! A few decades is a short time in mathematics, so it is reasonable that such a fertile subject is not yet well-understood. Yet it is the subject of this book.</p>
        <p>Such tilings differ in a variety of ways from any studied before, and it may be many years before we are confident of how they fit into the body of mathematics, and the most useful ways to view them. Our search to understand them will draw us into many parts of mathematics – including ergodic theory, functional analysis, group representations and ring theory, as well as parts of statistical physics and crystallography. Such breadth invites an ususual format for this mathematics text; rather than present a full introduction to some corner of mathematics, in this book we try to display the value (and joy!) of starting from a mathematically amorphous problem and combining ideas from diverse sources to produce new and significant mathematics – mathematics unforeseen from the motivating problem.</p>
        <p>The background assumed of the reader is that commonly offered an undergraduate mathematics major in the US, together with the curiosity to delve into new subjects, to readjust to a variety of viewpoints. The book is self-contained; subjects such as ergodic theory and statistical mechanics are introduced, <em>ab initio</em>, but only to the extent needed to absorb the desired insight.</p>
        <p>I hope I have imparted in the text the excitement I have enjoyed in the journey through the diverse subject matter. Part of the pleasure has been learning from friends and colleagues. My formal training was in physics, and it would be impossible to name all to whom I am indebted for that; as for mathematics, it is a great pleasure to acknowledge: Persi Diaconis, Charles Fefferman, Richard Kadison, Raphael Robinson, Hao Wang, and especially John Conway and Mark Kac, for insight and inspiration you cannot find in books.</p>
        <p>It is also a great pleasure to thank Marjorie Senechal and Jeffrey Lagarias for a great number of useful comments and encouragement; this book would certainly not have appeared without their help. And finally, special thanks are due Stuart Levy for creating the program “subst” for the display of substitution tilings; in particular I used it to make the figure of the quaquaversal tiling used in this book.</p>
        <p>Most of this book was written in 1997; for further results see the papers listed in <a href="http://www.ma.utexas.edu/users/radin/">http://www.ma.utexas.edu/users/radin/</a>.</p>
      
    </section></body></html>