<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" dir="ltr" lang="en"><head><meta charset="utf-8"/><meta content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" name="viewport"/><title>Chapter 5 Conclusion</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/epub.css"/></head><body>
  
  
  
    
    
    
    
  
  
    
      
        
        
        
        
        
        
      
    
  
  
    
    
  
<section data-filename="Part-0010.xhtml" role="doc-chapter" id="ltxid85" data-ams-doc="chapter" data-ams-doc-level="0"><h1 class="chapter"><span class="chapter__label" data-ams-doc="label">Chapter 5</span> <span class="chapter__title" data-ams-doc="title">Conclusion</span></h1>
          
          
          <p>I can watch a bubbling brook or waterfall for hours; the patterns are fascinating. If it were practical I would combine this curiosity with a scientific study of these patterns. Unfortunately the most interesting feature of such fluids, known as turbulence, is still beyond the understanding of science. The structural world of solids is pale by comparison – and indeed science has made much more progress in that direction. The (crystalline) structures of equilibrium solids are rather limited, and sophisticated mathematics has developed over many years to support such research, for instance the analysis of the crystallographic groups <cite-group><ams-x>[</ams-x><cite><a id="texmlid5-ref-2" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref" data-ams-ref="bibr" href="../Text/Part-0014.xhtml#texmlid5">HiC<cite-detail><ams-x>, </ams-x>p. 70</cite-detail></a></cite><ams-x>]</ams-x></cite-group>. The discovery of quasicrystals in 1984 <cite-group><ams-x>[</ams-x><cite><a id="texmlid29-ref-2" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref" data-ams-ref="bibr" href="../Text/Part-0014.xhtml#texmlid29">StO</a></cite><ams-x>]</ams-x></cite-group> reawakened interest in this old field, and coming as it did not long after the mathematical discovery of aperiodic tilings by Robert Berger, Raphael Robinson, Roger Penrose and others <cite-group><ams-x>[</ams-x><cite><a id="texmlid21-ref-2" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref" data-ams-ref="bibr" href="../Text/Part-0014.xhtml#texmlid21">GrS</a></cite><ams-x>]</ams-x></cite-group>, there has been a commingling of the subjects.</p>
          <p>Though not as rich as running water, the pinwheel and kite &amp; dart tilings (Figs. <span class="refgroup" data-ams-refrange="null" data-ams-ref="null" data-ams-doc="refgroup"><a data-ams-ref="figure" href="../Text/Part-0005.xhtml#ltxid20">13</a></span> and <span class="refgroup" data-ams-refrange="null" data-ams-ref="null" data-ams-doc="refgroup"><a data-ams-ref="figure" href="../Text/Part-0005.xhtml#ltxid8">1</a></span>) can still hold one’s attention. All that structure built out of one or two simple shapes! Our analysis has emphasized two general features. First, they are global structures built out of many copies of a limited number of different components. And second, the complicated global structure results solely from the limited ways neighboring components interact. These are the main points. A third feature is perhaps serendipitous, less essential: the structures are hierarchical. Our main quest has been to discover what global structures can be produced by the local interactions of its small components, and in this sense the additional hierarchy is perhaps too special. But, as we saw in the last chapter, it has certainly proved fertile!</p>
          <p>What have we learned after all from these pretty examples? We have seen at least three instances in which the study of these tilings has led to mathematics of independent interest, interest in a part of mathematics far from tiling. The first was the result of Shahar Mozes (Theorem <span class="refgroup" data-ams-refrange="null" data-ams-ref="null" data-ams-doc="refgroup"><a data-ams-ref="statement" href="../Text/Part-0006.xhtml#ltxid52">1.10</a></span>) which tied together seemingly disparate specialties within ergodic theory – the subshifts of finite type and the substitution subshifts. Such unexpected connections are highly prized. The other two legacies of the study were the idea of statistical rotational symmetry, and the determination (Theorem <span class="refgroup" data-ams-refrange="null" data-ams-ref="null" data-ams-doc="refgroup"><a data-ams-ref="statement" href="../Text/Part-0009.xhtml#ltxid81">4.7</a></span>) of the basic relations between simple pairs of rotations in space. Both of the latter are geometrical; in a sense, they are the result of working within the abstract framework of subshifts, but giving the abstract symbols a geometrical life.</p>
          <p>The ideas we used to explore our vague “main quest” include ergodic theory, probability theory, statistical mechanics and ring theory. This was one of the goals of this book – to show that significant new mathematics can result from the interplay of widely disparate viewpoints.</p>
          <p>As to our motivating problem on global structures, the picture we leave is incomplete; we have certainly not attained full understanding of such structures; all we have done is find a number of unexpected examples, and use them to obtain some unexpected consequences of the combination of hierarchy with rotations. There remain specific open problems, such as whether one can, by local rules, determine tilings all of which satisfy (<span class="refgroup" data-ams-refrange="null" data-ams-ref="null" data-ams-doc="refgroup"><a data-ams-ref="disp-formula" href="../Text/Part-0006.xhtml#texmlid8">1.1</a></span>) – in which one loses all information traveling between far distant regions. And there are less concrete problems, such as exploring the relations between more complicated pairs of spatial rotations. There is much interesting work to be done, and I hope this book encourages further investigation. More generally, I hope I have given some sense of the value and excitement of analyzing an amorphous problem through a wide variety of the lenses available from mathematics and the physical sciences.</p>
        </section></body></html>